doc/topics/jobs/external_cache.rst, before:

.. _external-job-cache:

=========================================
Storing Job Results in an External System
=========================================

After a job executes, job results are returned
to the Salt Master by each Salt Minion. These results are stored in the
:ref:`Default Job Cache <default_job_cache>`.

In addition to the Default Job Cache, Salt provides two additional
mechanisms to send job results to other systems (databases, local syslog,
and others):

* External Job Cache
* Master Job Cache

The major difference between these two
mechanism is from where results are returned (from the Salt Master or Salt
Minion).

External Job Cache - Minion-Side Returner
-----------------------------------------

When an External Job Cache is configured, data is returned to the Default Job
Cache on the Salt Master like usual, and then results are also sent to an
External Job Cache using a Salt returner module running on the Salt Minion.

.. image:: /_static/external-job-cache.png
    :align: center

* Advantages: Data is stored without placing additional load on the Salt Master.
* Disadvantages: Each Salt Minion connects to the external job cache, which can
  result in a large number of connections.  Also requires additional configuration to
  get returner module settings on all Salt Minions.

Master Job Cache - Master-Side Returner
---------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 2014.7.0

Instead of configuring an External Job Cache on each Salt Minion, you can
configure the Master Job Cache to send job results from the Salt Master
instead. In this configuration, Salt Minions send data to the Default Job Cache
as usual, and then the Salt Master sends the data to the external system using
a Salt returner module running on the Salt Master.

.. image:: /_static/master-job-cache.png
    :align: center

* Advantages: A single connection is required to the external system. This is
  preferred for databases and similar systems.
* Disadvantages: Places additional load on your Salt Master.

Configure an External or Master Job Cache
-----------------------------------------

Step 1: Understand Salt Returners
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you configure a job cache, it is essential to understand Salt returner
modules ("returners"). Returners are pluggable Salt Modules that take the data
returned by jobs, and then perform any necessary steps to send the data to an
external system. For example, a returner might establish a connection,
authenticate, and then format and transfer data.

The Salt Returner system provides the core functionality used by the External
and Master Job Cache systems, and the same returners are used by both systems.

Salt currently provides many different returners that let you connect to a
wide variety of systems. A complete list is available at
:ref:`all Salt returners <all-salt.returners>`.
Each returner is configured differently, so make sure you read and follow the
instructions linked from that page.

For example, the MySQL returner requires:

* A database created using provided schema (structure is available at
  :mod:`MySQL returner <salt.returners.mysql>`)
* A user created with privileges to the database
* Optional SSL configuration

A simpler returner, such as Slack or HipChat, requires:

* An API key/version
* The target channel/room
* The username that should be used to send the message

Step 2: Configure the Returner
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After you understand the configuration and have the external system ready, the
configuration requirements must be declared.

External Job Cache
""""""""""""""""""

The returner configuration settings can be declared in the Salt Minion
configuration file, the Minion's pillar data, or the Minion's grains.

If ``external_job_cache`` configuration settings are specified in more than
one place, the options are retrieved in the following order. The first
configuration location that is found is the one that will be used.

- Minion configuration file
- Minion's grains
- Minion's pillar data

Master Job Cache
""""""""""""""""

The returner configuration settings for the Master Job Cache should be
declared in the Salt Master's configuration file.

Configuration File Examples
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

MySQL requires:

.. code-block:: yaml

    mysql.host: 'salt'
    mysql.user: 'salt'
    mysql.pass: 'salt'
    mysql.db: 'salt'
    mysql.port: 3306

Slack requires:

.. code-block:: yaml

    slack.channel: 'channel'
    slack.api_key: 'key'
    slack.from_name: 'name'

After you have configured the returner and added settings to the configuration
file, you can enable the External or Master Job Cache.

Step 3: Enable the External or Master Job Cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuration is a single line that specifies an
already-configured returner to use to send all job data to an external system.

External Job Cache
""""""""""""""""""

To enable a returner as the External Job Cache (Minion-side), add the following
line to the Salt Master configuration file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ext_job_cache: <returner>

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ext_job_cache: mysql

.. note::
    When configuring an External Job Cache (Minion-side), the returner settings are
    added to the Minion configuration file, but the External Job Cache setting
    is configured in the Master configuration file.

Master Job Cache
""""""""""""""""

To enable a returner as a Master Job Cache (Master-side), add the following
line to the Salt Master configuration file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    master_job_cache: <returner>

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    master_job_cache: mysql

Verify that the returner configuration settings are in the Master configuration
file, and be sure to restart the salt-master service after you make
configuration changes. (``service salt-master restart``).

Commit message:

Add note about the jobs runner to the external job cache docs

doc/topics/jobs/external_cache.rst, after:

.. _external-job-cache:

=========================================
Storing Job Results in an External System
=========================================

After a job executes, job results are returned
to the Salt Master by each Salt Minion. These results are stored in the
:ref:`Default Job Cache <default_job_cache>`.

In addition to the Default Job Cache, Salt provides two additional
mechanisms to send job results to other systems (databases, local syslog,
and others):

* External Job Cache
* Master Job Cache

The major difference between these two mechanism is from where results are
returned (from the Salt Master or Salt Minion). Configuring either of these
options will also make the :py:mod:`Jobs Runner functions <salt.runners.jobs>`
to automatically query the remote stores for infomation.

External Job Cache - Minion-Side Returner
-----------------------------------------

When an External Job Cache is configured, data is returned to the Default Job
Cache on the Salt Master like usual, and then results are also sent to an
External Job Cache using a Salt returner module running on the Salt Minion.

.. image:: /_static/external-job-cache.png
    :align: center

* Advantages: Data is stored without placing additional load on the Salt Master.
* Disadvantages: Each Salt Minion connects to the external job cache, which can
  result in a large number of connections.  Also requires additional configuration to
  get returner module settings on all Salt Minions.

Master Job Cache - Master-Side Returner
---------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 2014.7.0

Instead of configuring an External Job Cache on each Salt Minion, you can
configure the Master Job Cache to send job results from the Salt Master
instead. In this configuration, Salt Minions send data to the Default Job Cache
as usual, and then the Salt Master sends the data to the external system using
a Salt returner module running on the Salt Master.

.. image:: /_static/master-job-cache.png
    :align: center

* Advantages: A single connection is required to the external system. This is
  preferred for databases and similar systems.
* Disadvantages: Places additional load on your Salt Master.

Configure an External or Master Job Cache
-----------------------------------------

Step 1: Understand Salt Returners
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you configure a job cache, it is essential to understand Salt returner
modules ("returners"). Returners are pluggable Salt Modules that take the data
returned by jobs, and then perform any necessary steps to send the data to an
external system. For example, a returner might establish a connection,
authenticate, and then format and transfer data.

The Salt Returner system provides the core functionality used by the External
and Master Job Cache systems, and the same returners are used by both systems.

Salt currently provides many different returners that let you connect to a
wide variety of systems. A complete list is available at
:ref:`all Salt returners <all-salt.returners>`.
Each returner is configured differently, so make sure you read and follow the
instructions linked from that page.

For example, the MySQL returner requires:

* A database created using provided schema (structure is available at
  :mod:`MySQL returner <salt.returners.mysql>`)
* A user created with privileges to the database
* Optional SSL configuration

A simpler returner, such as Slack or HipChat, requires:

* An API key/version
* The target channel/room
* The username that should be used to send the message

Step 2: Configure the Returner
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After you understand the configuration and have the external system ready, the
configuration requirements must be declared.

External Job Cache
""""""""""""""""""

The returner configuration settings can be declared in the Salt Minion
configuration file, the Minion's pillar data, or the Minion's grains.

If ``external_job_cache`` configuration settings are specified in more than
one place, the options are retrieved in the following order. The first
configuration location that is found is the one that will be used.

- Minion configuration file
- Minion's grains
- Minion's pillar data

Master Job Cache
""""""""""""""""

The returner configuration settings for the Master Job Cache should be
declared in the Salt Master's configuration file.

Configuration File Examples
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

MySQL requires:

.. code-block:: yaml

    mysql.host: 'salt'
    mysql.user: 'salt'
    mysql.pass: 'salt'
    mysql.db: 'salt'
    mysql.port: 3306

Slack requires:

.. code-block:: yaml

    slack.channel: 'channel'
    slack.api_key: 'key'
    slack.from_name: 'name'

After you have configured the returner and added settings to the configuration
file, you can enable the External or Master Job Cache.

Step 3: Enable the External or Master Job Cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuration is a single line that specifies an
already-configured returner to use to send all job data to an external system.

External Job Cache
""""""""""""""""""

To enable a returner as the External Job Cache (Minion-side), add the following
line to the Salt Master configuration file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ext_job_cache: <returner>

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ext_job_cache: mysql

.. note::
    When configuring an External Job Cache (Minion-side), the returner settings are
    added to the Minion configuration file, but the External Job Cache setting
    is configured in the Master configuration file.

Master Job Cache
""""""""""""""""

To enable a returner as a Master Job Cache (Master-side), add the following
line to the Salt Master configuration file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    master_job_cache: <returner>

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    master_job_cache: mysql

Verify that the returner configuration settings are in the Master configuration
file, and be sure to restart the salt-master service after you make
configuration changes. (``service salt-master restart``).
