doc/ref/cli/salt-call.rst, before:

=============
``salt-call``
=============

Synopsis
========

::

    salt-call [options]

Description
===========

The salt-call command is used to run module functions locally on a minion 
instead of executing them from the master.

Options
=======

.. program:: salt-call

.. option:: -h, --help

    Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options

.. option:: -g, --grains

    Return the information generated by the Salt grains

.. option:: -m MODULE_DIRS, --module-dirs=MODULE_DIRS

    Specify an additional directories to pull modules from, multiple
    directories can be delimited by commas

.. option:: -d, --doc

    Return the documentation for the specified module or for all modules if
    none are specified

.. option:: -l LOG_LEVEL, --log-level=LOG_LEVEL

    Console log level. One of ``info``, ``none``, ``garbage``,
    ``trace``, ``warning``, ``error``, ``debug``. For the logfile
    settings see the config file. Default: ``info``.

.. option::  --raw-out

    Print the output from the salt command in raw Python
    form, this is suitable for re-reading the output into
    an executing Python script with eval.

.. option::   --text-out

    Print the output from the salt command in the same
    form the shell would.

.. option::   --yaml-out

    Print the output from the salt command in YAML.

.. option::   --json-out

    Print the output from the salt command in JSON.

.. option:: --no-color

    Disable all colored output

See also
========

:manpage:`salt(1)`
:manpage:`salt-master(1)`
:manpage:`salt-minion(1)`

Commit message:

change salt-call manpage with outputter option

doc/ref/cli/salt-call.rst, after:

=============
``salt-call``
=============

Synopsis
========

::

    salt-call [options]

Description
===========

The salt-call command is used to run module functions locally on a minion 
instead of executing them from the master.

Options
=======

.. program:: salt-call

.. option:: -h, --help

    Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options

.. option:: -g, --grains

    Return the information generated by the Salt grains

.. option:: -m MODULE_DIRS, --module-dirs=MODULE_DIRS

    Specify an additional directories to pull modules from, multiple
    directories can be delimited by commas

.. option:: -d, --doc

    Return the documentation for the specified module or for all modules if
    none are specified

.. option:: -l LOG_LEVEL, --log-level=LOG_LEVEL

    Console log level. One of ``info``, ``none``, ``garbage``,
    ``trace``, ``warning``, ``error``, ``debug``. For the logfile
    settings see the config file. Default: ``info``.

.. option:: --out

    Pass in an alternative outputter to display the return of data. This
    outputter can be any of the available outputters:
    grains, highstate, json, key, overstatestage, pprint, raw, txt, yaml
    Some outputters are formatted only for data returned from specific
    functions, for instance the grains outputter will not work for non grains
    data.
    If an outputter is used that does not support the data passed into it, then
    Salt will fall back on the pprint outputter and display the return data
    using the python pprint library.

.. option:: --no-color

    Disable all colored output

See also
========

:manpage:`salt(1)`
:manpage:`salt-master(1)`
:manpage:`salt-minion(1)`
