doc/topics/troubleshooting/index.rst, before:

===============
Troubleshooting
===============

The intent of the  troubleshooting section is to introduce solutions to a
number of common issues encountered by users and the tools that are available
to aid in developing states and salt code.

Running in the Foreground
=========================

A great deal of information is available via the debug logging system, if you
are having issues with minions connecting or not starting run the minion and/or
master in the foreground:

.. code-block:: sh

  # salt-master -l debug
  # salt-minion -l debug


What Ports do the Master and Minion Need Open?
==============================================

No ports need to be opened up on each minion. For the master, tcp ports 4505
and 4506 need to be open. If you've put your salt master and minion both in
debug mode and don't see an acknowledgement that your minion has connected,
it could very well be a firewall.

You can check port connectivity from the minion with the nc command:

.. code-block:: sh

  # nc -v -z salt.master.ip 4505
  # nc -v -z salt.master.ip 4506


Using salt-call
===============

The salt-call command was originally developed for aiding in the development
of new salt modules. Since then many applications have arisen for the salt-call
command that is bundled with the salt minion. These range from the original
intent of the salt-call, development assistance, to gathering large amounts of
data from complex calls like state.highstate.

When developing the state tree it is generally recommended to invoke
state.highstate with salt-call, this displays a great deal more information
about the highstate execution than if it is called remotely.

Too many open files
===================

The salt-master needs at least 2 sockets per host that connects to it, one for
the Publisher and one for response port. Thus, large installations may upon
scaling up the number of minions accessing a given master, encounter:

.. code-block:: sh

        12:45:29,289 [salt.master    ][INFO    ] Starting Salt worker process 38
        Too many open files
        sock != -1 (tcp_listener.cpp:335)

The solution to this would be to check the number of files allowed to be
opened by the user running salt-master (root by default):

.. code-block:: sh

    [root@salt-master ~]# ulimit -n
    1024

And modify that value to be at least equal to the number of minions x 2.
This setting can be changed in limits.conf as the nofile value(s),
and activated upon new a login of the specified user.

So, an environment with 1800 minions, would need 1800 x 2 = 3600 as a minimum.


Salt Master Stops Responding
============================

There are known bugs with ZeroMQ less than 2.1.11 which can cause the salt
master to not respond properly. If you're running ZeroMQ greater than or equal
to 2.1.9, you can work around the bug by setting the sysctl net.core.rmem_max
and net.core.wmem_max to 16777216. Next set the third field in net.ipv4.tcp_rmem
and net.ipv4.tcp_wmem to at least 16777216.

You can do it manually with something like:

.. code-block:: sh

    # echo 16777216 > /proc/sys/net/core/rmem_max
    # echo 16777216 > /proc/sys/net/core/wmem_max
    # echo "4096 87380 16777216" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_rmem
    # echo "4096 87380 16777216" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_wmem

Or with the following salt state:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:

    net.core.rmem_max:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 16777216

    net.core.wmem_max:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 16777216

    net.ipv4.tcp_rmem:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 4096 87380 16777216

    net.ipv4.tcp_wmem:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 4096 87380 16777216


Common YAML Gotchas
===================

An extensive list of
:doc:`yaml idiosyncrasies</topics/troubleshooting/yaml_idiosyncrasies>`
has been compiled.

Commit message:

rST-ify some text and link to the firewall doc in troubleshooting

doc/topics/troubleshooting/index.rst, after:

===============
Troubleshooting
===============

The intent of the  troubleshooting section is to introduce solutions to a
number of common issues encountered by users and the tools that are available
to aid in developing states and salt code.

Running in the Foreground
=========================

A great deal of information is available via the debug logging system, if you
are having issues with minions connecting or not starting run the minion and/or
master in the foreground:

.. code-block:: sh

  # salt-master -l debug
  # salt-minion -l debug


What Ports do the Master and Minion Need Open?
==============================================

No ports need to be opened up on each minion. For the master, tcp ports 4505
and 4506 need to be open. If you've put your salt master and minion both in
debug mode and don't see an acknowledgement that your minion has connected,
it could very well be a firewall.

You can check port connectivity from the minion with the nc command:

.. code-block:: sh

  # nc -v -z salt.master.ip 4505
  # nc -v -z salt.master.ip 4506

There is also a :doc:`firewall configuration</topics/tutorials/firewall>`
document that might help as well.


Using salt-call
===============

The salt-call command was originally developed for aiding in the development
of new salt modules. Since then many applications have arisen for the salt-call
command that is bundled with the salt minion. These range from the original
intent of the salt-call, development assistance, to gathering large amounts of
data from complex calls like state.highstate.

When developing the state tree it is generally recommended to invoke
state.highstate with salt-call, this displays a great deal more information
about the highstate execution than if it is called remotely.

Too many open files
===================

The salt-master needs at least 2 sockets per host that connects to it, one for
the Publisher and one for response port. Thus, large installations may upon
scaling up the number of minions accessing a given master, encounter:

.. code-block:: sh

        12:45:29,289 [salt.master    ][INFO    ] Starting Salt worker process 38
        Too many open files
        sock != -1 (tcp_listener.cpp:335)

The solution to this would be to check the number of files allowed to be
opened by the user running salt-master (root by default):

.. code-block:: sh

    [root@salt-master ~]# ulimit -n
    1024

And modify that value to be at least equal to the number of minions x 2.
This setting can be changed in limits.conf as the nofile value(s),
and activated upon new a login of the specified user.

So, an environment with 1800 minions, would need 1800 x 2 = 3600 as a minimum.


Salt Master Stops Responding
============================

There are known bugs with ZeroMQ less than 2.1.11 which can cause the salt
master to not respond properly. If you're running ZeroMQ greater than or equal
to 2.1.9, you can work around the bug by setting the sysctls
``net.core.rmem_max`` and ``net.core.wmem_max`` to 16777216. Next set the third
field in ``net.ipv4.tcp_rmem`` and ``net.ipv4.tcp_wmem`` to at least 16777216.

You can do it manually with something like:

.. code-block:: sh

    # echo 16777216 > /proc/sys/net/core/rmem_max
    # echo 16777216 > /proc/sys/net/core/wmem_max
    # echo "4096 87380 16777216" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_rmem
    # echo "4096 87380 16777216" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_wmem

Or with the following salt state:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:

    net.core.rmem_max:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 16777216

    net.core.wmem_max:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 16777216

    net.ipv4.tcp_rmem:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 4096 87380 16777216

    net.ipv4.tcp_wmem:
      sysctl:
        - present
        - value: 4096 87380 16777216


Common YAML Gotchas
===================

An extensive list of
:doc:`yaml idiosyncrasies</topics/troubleshooting/yaml_idiosyncrasies>`
has been compiled.
