doc/topics/venafi/venafi.rst, before:

=====================
Venafi Tools for Salt
=====================

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before using these modules you need to register an account with Venafi, and
configure it in your ``master`` configuration file.

First, you need to add a placeholder to the ``master`` file. This is because
the module will not load unless it finds an ``api_key`` setting, valid or not.
Open up ``/etc/salt/master`` and add:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: None

Then register your email address with Venagi using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-run venefi.register <youremail@yourdomain.com>

This command will not return an ``api_key`` to you; that will be send to you
via email from Venafi. Once you have received that key, open up your ``master``
file and set the ``api_key`` to it:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: abcdef01-2345-6789-abcd-ef0123456789
Before using these modules you need to register an account with Venafi, and
configure it in your ``master`` configuration file.

First, you need to add a placeholder to the ``master`` file. This is because
the module will not load unless it finds an ``api_key`` setting, valid or not.
Open up ``/etc/salt/master`` and add:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: None

Then register your email address with Venagi using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-run venefi.register <youremail@yourdomain.com>

This command will not return an ``api_key`` to you; that will be send to you
via email from Venafi. Once you have received that key, open up your ``master``
file and set the ``api_key`` to it:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: abcdef01-2345-6789-abcd-ef0123456789


Runner Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

gen_rsa
-------
Generate and return an RSA ``private_key``. If a ``dns_name`` is passed in, the
``private_key`` will be cached under that name. 

:param str minion_id: Required. The name of the minion which hosts the domain
    name in question.

:param str dns_name: Required. The FQDN of the domain that will be hosted on
    the minion.

:param str zone: Optional. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the domain belongs to.

:param str password: Optional. If specified, the password to use to access the
    generated RSA key.


gen_csr
-------
Generate a csr using the host's private_key. Analogous to:

.. code-block:: bash

    VCert gencsr -cn [CN Value] -o "Beta Organization" -ou "Beta Group" \
        -l "Palo Alto" -st "California" -c US

:param str minion_id: Required.

:param str dns_name: Required.

:param str zone: Optional. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the domain belongs to.

:param str country=None: Optional. The two-letter ISO abbreviation for your
    country.

:param str state=None: Optional. The state/county/region where your
    organisation is legally located. Must not be abbreviated.

:param str loc=None: Optional. The city where your organisation is legally
    located.

:param str org=None: Optional. The exact legal name of your organisation. Do
    not abbreviate your organisation name.

:param str org_unit=None: Optional. Section of the organisation, can be left
    empty if this does not apply to your case.

:param str password=None: Optional. Password for the CSR.


request
-------
Request a new certificate. Analogous to:

.. code-block:: bash

    VCert enroll -z <zone> -k <api key> -cn <domain name>

:param str minion_id: Required.

:param str dns_name: Required.

:param str zone: Optional. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the domain belongs to.

:param str country=None: Optional. The two-letter ISO abbreviation for your
    country.

:param str state=None: Optional. The state/county/region where your
    organisation is legally located. Must not be abbreviated.

:param str loc=None: Optional. The city where your organisation is legally
    located.

:param str org=None: Optional. The exact legal name of your organisation. Do
    not abbreviate your organisation name.

:param str org_unit=None: Optional. Section of the organisation, can be left
    empty if this does not apply to your case.

:param str password=None: Optional. Password for the CSR.

:param str company_id=None: Required, but may be configured in ``master`` file
    instead.

:param str zone_id=None: Required. Specify the zone used to determine enrollment
    configuration. In Trust Protection Platform this is equivelant to the policy
    path where the certificate object will be stored. vCert prepends
    \VED\Policy\, so you only need to specify policy folders within the root
    Policy folder. Example: -z Corp\Engineering


register
--------
Register a new user account

:param str email: Required. The email address to use for the new Venafi account.


show_company
------------
Show company information, especially the company id

:param str domain: Required. The domain name to look up information for.


show_csrs
---------
Show certificate requests for the configured API key.


show_zones
----------
Show zones for the specified company id.

:param str company_id: Required. The company id to show the zones for.


pickup, show_cert
-----------------
Show certificate requests for the specified certificate id. Analogous to the
VCert pickup command.

:param str id_: Required. The id of the certificate to look up.


show_rsa
--------
Show a private RSA key.

:param str minion_id: The name of the minion to display the key for.

:param str dns_name: The domain name to display the key for.


list_domain_cache
-----------------
List domains that have been cached on this master.


del_cached_domain
-----------------
Delete a domain from this master's cache.

:param str domains: A domain name, or a comma-separated list of domain names,
    to delete from this master's cache.

Commit message:

Added support for generating key based on configured policy and to use updated flattened APIs

doc/topics/venafi/venafi.rst, after:

=====================
Venafi Tools for Salt
=====================

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before using these modules you need to register an account with Venafi, and
configure it in your ``master`` configuration file.

First, you need to add a placeholder to the ``master`` file. This is because
the module will not load unless it finds an ``api_key`` setting, valid or not.
Open up ``/etc/salt/master`` and add:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: None

Then register your email address with Venafi using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-run venefi.register <youremail@yourdomain.com>

This command will not return an ``api_key`` to you; that will be send to you
via email from Venafi. Once you have received that key, open up your ``master``
file and set the ``api_key`` to it:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: abcdef01-2345-6789-abcd-ef0123456789
Before using these modules you need to register an account with Venafi, and
configure it in your ``master`` configuration file.

First, you need to add a placeholder to the ``master`` file. This is because
the module will not load unless it finds an ``api_key`` setting, valid or not.
Open up ``/etc/salt/master`` and add:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: None

Then register your email address with Venagi using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-run venefi.register <youremail@yourdomain.com>

This command will not return an ``api_key`` to you; that will be send to you
via email from Venafi. Once you have received that key, open up your ``master``
file and set the ``api_key`` to it:

.. code-block:: yaml

    api_key: abcdef01-2345-6789-abcd-ef0123456789

Example Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Generate a CSR and submit it to Venafi for issuance, using the 'Internet' zone:
salt-run venafi.request minion.example.com minion.example.com zone=Internet

Retrieve a certificate for a previously submitted request with request ID
aaa-bbb-ccc-dddd:
salt-run venafi.pickup aaa-bbb-ccc-dddd

Runner Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

gen_key
-------
Generate and return a ``private_key``. If a ``dns_name`` is passed in, the
``private_key`` will be cached under that name. 

The key will be generated based on the policy values that were configured
by the Venafi administrator. A default Certificate Use Policy is associated
with a zone; the key type and key length parameters associated with this value
will be used.

:param str minion_id: Required. The name of the minion which hosts the domain
    name in question.

:param str dns_name: Required. The FQDN of the domain that will be hosted on
    the minion.

:param str zone: Required. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the domain belongs to.

:param str password: Optional. If specified, the password to use to access the
    generated key.


gen_csr
-------
Generate a csr using the host's private_key. Analogous to:

.. code-block:: bash

    VCert gencsr -cn [CN Value] -o "Beta Organization" -ou "Beta Group" \
        -l "Palo Alto" -st "California" -c US

:param str minion_id: Required.

:param str dns_name: Required.

:param str zone: Optional. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the domain belongs to.

:param str country=None: Optional. The two-letter ISO abbreviation for your
    country.

:param str state=None: Optional. The state/county/region where your
    organisation is legally located. Must not be abbreviated.

:param str loc=None: Optional. The city where your organisation is legally
    located.

:param str org=None: Optional. The exact legal name of your organisation. Do
    not abbreviate your organisation name.

:param str org_unit=None: Optional. Section of the organisation, can be left
    empty if this does not apply to your case.

:param str password=None: Optional. Password for the CSR.


request
-------
Request a new certificate. Analogous to:

.. code-block:: bash

    VCert enroll -z <zone> -k <api key> -cn <domain name>

:param str minion_id: Required.

:param str dns_name: Required.

:param str zone: Required. Default value is "default". The zone on Venafi that
    the certificate request will be submitted to.

:param str country=None: Optional. The two-letter ISO abbreviation for your
    country.

:param str state=None: Optional. The state/county/region where your
    organisation is legally located. Must not be abbreviated.

:param str loc=None: Optional. The city where your organisation is legally
    located.

:param str org=None: Optional. The exact legal name of your organisation. Do
    not abbreviate your organisation name.

:param str org_unit=None: Optional. Section of the organisation, can be left
    empty if this does not apply to your case.

:param str password=None: Optional. Password for the CSR.

:param str company_id=None: Required, but may be configured in ``master`` file
    instead.

register
--------
Register a new user account

:param str email: Required. The email address to use for the new Venafi account.


show_company
------------
Show company information, especially the company id

:param str domain: Required. The domain name to look up information for.


show_csrs
---------
Show certificate requests for the configured API key.


show_zones
----------
Show zones for the specified company id.

:param str company_id: Required. The company id to show the zones for.


pickup, show_cert
-----------------
Show certificate requests for the specified certificate id. Analogous to the
VCert pickup command.

:param str id_: Required. The id of the certificate to look up.


show_rsa
--------
Show a private RSA key.

:param str minion_id: The name of the minion to display the key for.

:param str dns_name: The domain name to display the key for.


list_domain_cache
-----------------
List domains that have been cached on this master.


del_cached_domain
-----------------
Delete a domain from this master's cache.

:param str domains: A domain name, or a comma-separated list of domain names,
    to delete from this master's cache.
